Introduction to theory of bilevel problems (#119)
joaquimg/BilevelJuMP.jl: docs/src/theory.md

# Theory of Bi-level Optimization
## Introduction

> Standard single-level optimization problems consist of a single decision-maker who controls a set of decision variables to optimize its goal. However, in many real-world problems, several decision-makers with conflicting goals interact, and each individual decision impacts the decisions and outcomes of the others. Such interdependencies cannot be captured with the standard-setting of a single decision-maker, and other, more adequate, optimization problems are required [[1]](#1).

Reviewer: I'm not sure we should copy verbatim the first paragraph of Kleinert's thesis, even if it is cited.

Reviewer 2: agreed, things should be much shorter, more informal in the documentation

Finally, we introduce a naming convention that we use to denote the classes of bilevel problems that we consider in this research. We therefore introduce the independer leader problem 

```math
	\begin{align}
	&\text{\textbf{(ILP)}}\\
	&\min_{x,y} F(x,y),\\
 & s.t.\\ 
& G(x,y) \leq 0,\\
& x\in X,\\
	\end{align}
```
and the independent follower problem

```math
	\begin{align}
	&\text{\textbf{(IFP)}}\\
	&\min_{x,y} f(x,y),\\
 & s.t.\\ 
& g(x,y) \leq 0,\\
& y\in Y.\\
	\end{align}
```
For linear bilevel problems (LBPs), both problems are linear problems (LPs). We thus call LBPs as LP-LP bilevel problems. Similarly, we consider, e.g., MILP-MILP problems, in which both problems (ILP) and (IFP) are mixed- integer linear problems (MILPs). Further, for the class of convex MIQP-QP problems, all involved constraints are assumed to be linear in x and y, and the two objective functions F and f are assumed to be convex-quadratic in x and y. This renders Problem (ILP) a convex mixed-integer quadratic problem (MIQP) and Problem (IFP) a convex quadratic problem (QP).

## Computational Challenges

> Bilevel problems possess interesting properties and are computationally chal- lenging due to their hierarchical structure. This is demonstrated by the following example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bilevel problems possess interesting properties and are computationally challenging due to their hierarchical structure. This is demonstrated by the following example.
```

3. The single leader constraint indicated by the dashed line renders certain optimal responses of the follower infeasible. Thus, the bilevel feasible region ``\mathcal{F}`` corresponds to the green facets. Consequently, the feasible set of example (1) is not only nonconvex but also disconnected.
4. The optimal solution of example (1) is (3/7, 6/7) with objective function value 39/7. In contrast, ignoring the follower objective, i.e., solving the high-point relaxation (HPR), yields the optimal solution (3, 0) with objective function value 3. Note that the latter point is not bilevel feasible.

Example (1) indicates that bilevel problems are intrinsically nonconvex due to their hierarchical structure. It has been proven that LP-LP problems are strongly NP-hard; even checking local optimality of LP-LP problems is NP-hard. 

##  Linear and Convex Follower Problems

In this section, we take a closer look at bilevel problems with linear or convex followers. This is the class of bilevel problems that we mainly consider in this research. In case of LP-LP problems, we have the following property.

> !!!note Theorem 1. If the set of optimal solutions of an LP-LP problem is nonempty, then it contains at least one vertex of the shared constraint set Ω.

Reviewer: These need to be 
```
!!! note "Theorem 1"
    If the set ...
```

<div class="panel panel-warning">
**Theorem 1.**
{: .panel-heading}
<div class="panel-body">

If the set of optimal solutions of an LP-LP problem is nonempty, then it contains at least one vertex of the shared constraint set ``\Omega``.

</div>

> </div>

Reviewer: Guess this `<div>` stuff is just a copy-paste issue?

Thus, LP-LP problems can be solved by vertex enumeration of the shared constraint set ``\Omega``. A more general class contains problems with convex parametric follower problems (BP-F). In this case, the functions ``f(x,.)`` and ``g(x,·)`` are restricted to be convex for fixed decisions ``x`` of the leader and ``Y = \mathbb{R}^m``. If the para- metric follower problem (BP-F) satisfies a constraint qualification, then it can be replaced by its necessary and sufficient KKT conditions. Thus, one can transform Problem (BP) to

```math
\begin{align}
&\text{\textbf{(BP-KKT)}}&\\
&\min_{x,y,\lambda} F(x,y),&\\
 & s.t.&\\ 
& G(x,y) \leq 0 & x\in X,\\
& g(x,y) \leq 0,&\\
& \nabla_y \mathcal{L}(x,y,\lambda)=0, &\lambda \geq 0,\\
& \lambda_i g_i(x,\lambda)=0, &i=1,\dots,\ell,
\end{align}
```
in which

```math
\begin{align}
\mathcal{L}(x,y,\lambda)=f(y)+ \lambda^T g(x,y)
\end{align}
```
is the Lagrangian function associated with the follower problem. Problem (BP-KKT) is equivalent to Problem (BP) in the following sense.

<div class="panel panel-warning">

> **Theorem 2.**

Reviewer: Same thing here

<a id="27">[27]</a> 
Savard, Gilles, and Jacques Gauvin. "The steepest descent direction for the nonlinear bilevel programming problem." Operations Research Letters 15.5 (1994): 265-272.

<a id="28">[28]</a> 
Hansen, Pierre, Brigitte Jaumard, and Gilles Savard. "New branch-and-bound rules for linear bilevel programming." SIAM Journal on scientific and Statistical Computing 13.5 (1992): 1194-1217.

<a id="29">[29]</a> 
Audet, Charles, Jean Haddad, and Gilles Savard. "Disjunctive cuts for continuous linear bilevel programming." Optimization Letters 1.3 (2007): 259-267.

<a id="30">[30]</a> 
Audet, Charles, Gilles Savard, and Walid Zghal. "New branch-and-cut algorithm for bilevel linear programming." Journal of Optimization Theory and Applications 134.2 (2007): 353-370.

<a id="31">[31]</a> 
Candler, Wilfred, and Roger Norton. Multi-level programming and development policy. The World Bank, 1977.

<a id="32">[32]</a> 
DeNegre, Scott T., and Ted K. Ralphs. "A branch-and-cut algorithm for integer bilevel linear programs." Operations research and cyber-infrastructure. Springer, Boston, MA, 2009. 65-78.

> =======

Reviewer: Remove, along with blank lines at end of file
